Hello and welcome. Today we're going to
talk about hardware kill switches.
They've been shipping on more and more
alternative devices and they do things
like cut power to various devices like
the microphone, camera, Wi-Fi, or even
the modem. The pitch is pretty
straightforward. You flip the switch and
you know on a physical level that the
device is off. Like if you switch off
the microphone, it's physically not
listening. My phone lives in my pocket
90% of the time. So having a physical
hardware kill switch that blocks the
camera or the front camera is
about as useful as my pocket. U very
rarely am I walking my phone around
pointing it at things that I don't want
recorded. It begs the question, are
these actually useful or just privacy
theater? The argument goes that software
can lie and therefore hardware is always
more secure. When you tap disable
microphone on Android, you're trusting
there's no bug, back door, or
vulnerability in the software stack.
That's actually all a pretty fair point,
but let's see if the FLX1S
implementation is actually any good.
Flipping the camera switch triggers a
GPIO pin. The colonel sees it and stops
the hardware abstraction layer. When
off, the I squared C bus just fails. And
the GPIO is input only, meaning you
can't spoof this with software. When
you're in the camera app and you flip
the switch, you can see the feed drops
instantly.
You do have to restart the app in order
to get the feed back. The modem switch
has a similar pattern. GPIO triggers the
kernel. Wireless gets killed. Input only
pin can't be faked. But for the mic
switch, this is actually a really good
one. No GPIO events, no kernel logs, no
ALSA changes. Nothing in software even
knows it flipped. There's literally no
software bypass for this. signal gets
cut in the analog domain. Okay, now
here's where things get interesting.
None of these switches can disable the
accelerometer. And can accelerometers be
used to capture audio data? Yes, they
can. So, here's the microphone kill
switch, and I'm flipping it off. I'll go
ahead and play some tones through the
speaker and record the accelerometer
data.
Here's the basic tones I played.
And here's what I was able to recover
from the accelerometer.
So yeah, that worked. Frequency stuff
came through pretty clean. Let's go
ahead and try some speech. This is the
original audio clip. I'm going to go
ahead and play. But private drive had
hardly changed at all. The sun rose on
the same tidy front gardens and lit up
the brass number four on the Derslley's
front door. It crept into and here's
what the accelerometer was able to
capture.
Not really intelligible. You can tell
that there's a rhythm there, but the
actual words are gone. So, what's going
on? The FLX1S accelerometer has a max
frequency of about 380 hertz. That's a
hardware limit on this particular sensor
and there's no way to bypass it, which
should put you in about 190 hertz as far
as maximum recoverable frequency. Here's
what that normal speech sounds like if I
reample at this 380 Hz.
&gt;&gt; Nearly 10 years had
&gt;&gt; not much there. Human speech needs much
higher frequencies around 2500 hertz to
be intelligible. So really in the end,
this isn't a particular attack vector.
The microphone switches off and you can
be pretty sure that your phone's not
recording audio. Let's say you're in a
sensitive meeting and you flip off the
network switch. Secure, right? Cuz no
data out. Well, if your phone's infected
with sophisticated malware, it can just
wait. Record data when it has access to
the microphone and send that data when
it has access to the network. Airplane
mode has the same limitations, by the
way. It's not just a hardware kill
switch thing. One thing that can happen
pretty easily if you do use the hardware
kill switches is you can forget what
state they're in. The user interface
doesn't always update or doesn't update
quickly. For example, if you use the
hardware kill switch for the microphone
and forget to turn it on, you might take
video that doesn't have audio,
completely forgetting about that
feature. So, here's where I land. This
stuff is legit. It does work and it does
protect you. I just don't have a
particular need in my daily life for it
to be useful. The accelerometer side
channel does exist, but isn't really
practical for any real attack.
Potentially, you could use AI to
reconstruct more of the voice, but you'd
have to train individual AIs per
speaker, and I don't think that's ever
been tested at 380 Hz before. The cash
and weight problem is definitely the
biggest defeater of hardbo switches. If
you're flipping them on and off
constantly, you'll eventually forget to
flip them off when you need a sensitive
meeting blocked, and you'll have network
connectivity eventually, still leaving
room for softwarebased attacks. At the
end of the day, I wish this wasn't the
angle we were pushing. I understand that
it's a good marketing angle and that it
does attract a certain type of user base
to these very niche devices, but I'd
honestly rather see a HDMI port or a USB
port, potentially even a full-sized
Ethernet port. that would be much more
useful for my daily life than a hardware
kill switch. So yeah, these hardware
kill switches will remain in their on
state for probably the remainder of the
phone life. But uh if you guys have an
interesting use case for the hardware
kill switches or if you think they're
more valuable than I think they are,
please leave a comment below. I'd love
to have my mind changed on this. Thanks
for watching. Bye.
Sit on the side. Three flippity toggles
of privacy pride. You flip and you flop
and the mic goes to sleep. The camera
goes dark. Not a pixel will peep.
Them goes poof.
No signal gets out.
is through. But flip it again and it all
comes right back. It's not a brick
phone, just a privacy hack.
&gt;&gt; But what's your use case?
&gt;&gt; I can't find mine.
&gt;&gt; What's your use case?
&gt;&gt; The phone works just fine.
&gt;&gt; Oh, tell me. Oh, do I got no use?
&gt;&gt; So, how about you?
Are you a journalist running from spies?
A diplomat hiding from government eyes?
An activist tweeting from some secret
place? Well, those are some very
legitimate cases. But me, I'm just me
with my phone in my jeans. The camera
points down and sees nothing but me. I
tested the switches. They work. Yes,
they do. But do I go flip them? I
haven't a clue.
&gt;&gt; So, what's your use case?
&gt;&gt; The batteries fine.
&gt;&gt; Come on, let me know. Just drop your
case
&gt;&gt; in the comments below.
Just drop your use case.
&gt;&gt; Now a use case is better than a used
case. You see that's the squishy
silicone thing.
That joke was quite free and I gave it
to you. You're welcome. You're welcome.
Now back to the
No flippity switchy floppity free. You
bobby and two and three.
&gt;&gt; The modem goes by, the camera goes fly.
But that is just up. It does nothing.
That's
&gt;&gt; the mic is the best when it's pure AND
IT'S TRUE.
&gt;&gt; NO SOFTWARE CAN SPY. THERE'S NO DIGITAL.
&gt;&gt; IT CUTS in the analog. Isn't that
&gt;&gt; the CPU doesn't know what that switch
even means?
&gt;&gt; So what's your use case?
&gt;&gt; WHAT'S YOUR USE CASE?
&gt;&gt; I REALLY DO want to know. Help me solve
this case. Drop a comment. Change my
mind. Prove me wrong. And thank you for
listening to this silly song.
la
me
know.
