Hello and welcome back. The world
finally has a true contender to Android
and Apple. It's the FLX1S,
a true Linux phone running a Debianbased
distribution. Let's take a look. As you
can see, the specs here are pretty
impressive. It's got 8 gigs of RAM, 128
gigs of storage, and an impressive CPU.
It also has
hardware kill switches.
That is super impressive. First thing
since the Libram 5 that's had easily
accessible switches on a device like
this. The frequency support here looks
pretty good for the United States and I
plan to test this out on T-Mobile to see
how it performs. Fury OS is the native
operating system on this phone and it
allows you to run native Debian apps as
well as Android applications. This gives
you the best of both worlds where you
can easily utilize Android applications
that you can't get away from but at the
same time be able to use a Linux stack
to develop whatever you want. Want to
build a Python application? Fine. Want
to develop in C++? Do it. Want to build
your own programming language? This is
the device for you. At least the device
for you in 2025. It's still in
pre-sales, but it's finishing it
production run soon. So, if you want in
on this first batch, I'd pre-order
pretty soon. I plan to get my hands on
one of these suckers and put it through
its paces. Let's see if the world has a
new Linux phone king. Thanks for
watching. Bye.
I walk through a graveyard of halfin
dreams of pineones that stuttered and
split at the seams. I flashed Ubuntu. I
tried selfish OS and ended each day with
a new set of woes.
So, here's to the FLX1s.
Our prayer in the night. May the
Bluetooth connect and the batteries stay
bright. We don't ask for magic. We don't
ask for much. Just a good Linux phone
that doesn't completely suck.
Remember that camera that took 10
seconds to load? Then crash the whole
system and enter safe mode. I just want
to get texts from my friends. Is that
strange without the whole user interface
having to change?
Oh, here's to the FLX1s.
Our prayer in the night. May the apps
not all crash with the greatest of
might. We don't ask for magic. We don't
ask for much. Just a slick Linux phone
that doesn't totally suck.
My wallet is open. My hope is on high.
Please don't make me go back to that
fruit in the sky. I'm tired of gardens
with very high walls. I just want to
answer my gosh darn call.
So, thanks for watching. You understand
the pain.
Let's hope this one finally breaks the
whole chain.
Please don't suck.
