Hello and welcome. Today we're looking
at the FLX1S by Fury Labs. It's one of
those rare Linux devices that's actually
good at being a phone. Let's take a
look. All right, here's what you get in
the box. The phone, some cute stickers.
I also ordered the glass screen
protector and a case. As a nice
surprise, they also included a free pair
of USBC headphones. I appreciate that
since there's no headphone jack on the
phone.
Quick note on the screen protector,
though. It's glass. Mine cracked in
shipping, and I'd love to see a film
screen protector instead.
Let me save you some confusion. On day
one, I thought this was the power
button, and these were maybe
programmable buttons. And then over
here, I figured this was a volume
rocker. And then you have your hardware
kill switches. That's not the case. It's
actually um this is a programmable
button. These are your volume keys up
and down. And then on this side, you
have one very large
uh power button right above your
hardware kill switches. Not what I
expected, but there you go. The hardware
kill switches feel really good to use.
They cover the microphone, camera, and
modem and GPS. The UI needs a bit of
work around these as it shows stale data
when you flip them off and then shows
them reconnect when you flip them back
on.
Okay, now the important part. Does it
actually work as a phone? Here's where
the FLX1S really shines. You can get
calls and text just by putting in a SIM
card and booting the device. Pretty
slick. And as far as I can tell, they're
pretty reliable. Mobile data had a bit
of a hiccup where I had to toggle it off
and then back on before I could actually
use it. That's pretty basic
troubleshooting that I feel like most
users would be able to handle. and I bet
would be covered by a simple reboot as
well. I did enable the SUPPL server
settings and took it for a drive and I
could watch my icon move as I drove
around in Gnome Maps,
but a GPS that can actually get a signal
is only half the battle. Right now, it
uses Gnome Maps by default, which is no
competitor to Google Maps. It'll do
basic mapping and show you where you
are, but if you need turnbyturn
navigation, this ain't doing it.
That's not really an issue with the
FLX1S in particular. It's more of an
issue with the mobile Linux ecosystem
having a massive gap for mapping.
Camera works.
&gt;&gt; It can take photos. It can record video.
[crying]
&gt;&gt; Very goody duty. The shutter is a bit
slow and I'd say the quality is maybe
not on par with a standard Android
phone, but certainly usable for basic
things like um here's the cable layout I
need to duplicate later. The app store
is Gnome software which means it's a bit
slow.
It also seems it's configured with flatp
pack by default. This is great for
availability, but rough on a phone. This
eats up space, memory, and bandwidth.
Installing Gnome Secrets took about 3
minutes pulling down all the different
run times. Okay, now for the real issue.
A lot of these apps were never tested on
this device, let alone mobile Linux in
general. So, it's a bit of a mixed bag
of what works, and it takes a bit of
trial and error. Persistent people will
find cool nuggets and cool apps. If you
want every app to function, this is not
going to be it.
Now, on the Android side, this is where
the FLX1S gets interesting. You can
enable Andromeda, their Android
compatibility layer, and install apps
from Froid. But there's a catch. These
apps you can't live without, banking
apps, payment apps, often reject what
looks like a rooted device. So, can you
daily drive this? I think yes, but with
some caveats. Phone calls, SMS, working
web browsing, battery life, even
Bluetooth is pretty solid. The major
things that need work, I'd say, are
camera quality and the lack of being
able to run certain Android apps.
&gt;&gt; Okay.
&gt;&gt; Okay. Here's where things get really
interesting. You can install cloud code
directly on the device. That's pretty
freaking nuts. As a dev box, this is
miles ahead of Android and iOS. Full
terminal access, the ability to modify
software at any layer you want, build
compositors, mess with the shell. I
think the FLX1S is a pragmatic middle
ground between what Linux phones could
be with native support and what Android
drivers allow. You have to deal with a
lot of compatibility layers if you're
going to dig deep on the software stack,
but I think it's worth it as you get a
pretty fast device to play with. So, who
exactly is this device for? Someone who
doesn't need a bunch of apps sucking
them in or people who want to tinker and
turn it into something truly epic. It's
a phone that takes calls. It can do a
lot more, but it's proportional to the
effort you put in. If you want hardware
kill switches and real privacy, this has
them. If you're comfortable
troubleshooting, you'll do just fine.
I'd probably wait if you need a flawless
camera or if banking apps are
non-negotiable.
The community around Fury Labs is
actually very friendly. That's one of
the better things that they've managed
to create. As a teaser, this is the
Flick shell running on the FLX1S.
It's definitely in prototype stages
still, but man, you can make this thing
look quite bitching. Subscribe for
mobile Linux updates and future projects
I'm working on. Can you say bye-bye?
&gt;&gt; Bye. [laughter]
Could build a server in my hand. Code an
app while I'm waiting in line. SSH and
anything or just call
[singing and music] my mom. That's fine.
Possibilities
are endless. But I don't have to prove
it. It's just a phone if you [music]
want it. Just a phone, nothing [singing]
more. Or dig deeper and you'll find it.
Opens every single door. Make it simple,
make it crazy. It's whatever you decide.
Just a phone [singing] or a [music]
whole computer. Either way, I'm
satisfied.
No apps begging for attention. [singing]
No algorithm [music] in my brain. Send a
text, make a call. Sometimes [music]
simple breaks the chain.
It's just a phone [music] if you want
it. Just a phone, nothing [singing]
more. Or dig deeper and you'll [music]
find it opens every single door. Make it
simple. Make it crazy. It's whatever you
[music] decide. Just a phone [singing]
or a whole computer. Either [music] way,
I'm satisfied.
I
just for
[singing]
our everything.
You're a call. You're call your [music]
call.
Our call.
